lua.md, before:

# Supported Lib

1. base
2. table
3. string
4. io

# Global

1. [\_\_conf\_\_](#__conf__)
2. [\_syslog](#_syslog)
3. [qtun.state](#qtunstate)
4. [qtun.conf](#qtunconf)
5. [qtun.log](#qtunlog)

## \_\_conf\_\_

| key        | value                         |
| ---------- | ----------------------------- |
| **type**   | user\_data                    |
| **desc**   | It's supported to get `library_conf_t` in c language. So you can't use it in your lua script. |

## \_syslog

| key        | value                         |
| ---------- | ----------------------------- |
| **type**   | function                      |
| **desc**   | Log for system log.           |

	_syslog(level, fmt, ...)
	
*level*: write log when [qtun.state.log_level](#qtunstatelog_level) >= level.

*fmt*: format string for follow arguments.

## qtun.state

| key        | value                         |
| ---------- | ----------------------------- |
| **type**   | table                         |
| **desc**   | It's the object for global variable `this`, it has many properties follow. |

### qtun.state.this\_path

| key        | value                                  |
| ---------- | -------------------------------------- |
| **type**   | string                                 |
| **access** | readonly                               |
| **desc**   | Location for qtun program in realpath. |

### qtun.state.msg\_ident

| key        | value                         |
| ---------- | ----------------------------- |
| **type**   | number                        |
| **access** | readonly                      |
| **desc**   | Ident for send message.       |

### qtun.state.msg\_ttl

| key        | value                         |
| ---------- | ----------------------------- |
| **type**   | number                        |
| **access** | readonly                      |
| **desc**   | TTL for recv message.         |

### qtun.state.localip

| key        | value                         |
| ---------- | ----------------------------- |
| **type**   | string                        |
| **access** | readonly                      |
| **desc**   | Virtual LAN ip address.       |

### qtun.state.netmask

| key        | value                         |
| ---------- | ----------------------------- |
| **type**   | number                        |
| **access** | readonly                      |
| **desc**   | Netmask for Virtual LAN.      |

### qtun.state.log\_level

| key        | value                         |
| ---------- | ----------------------------- |
| **type**   | number                        |
| **access** | readonly                      |
| **desc**   | Log level in [`qtun.log.LOG_EMERG`](#log_levels), [`qtun.log.LOG_ALERT`](#log_levels), [`qtun.log.LOG_CRIT`](#log_levels), [`qtun.log.LOG_ERR`](#log_levels), [`qtun.log.LOG_WARNING`](#log_levels), [`qtun.log.LOG_NOTICE`](#log_levels), [`qtun.log.LOG_INFO`](#log_levels) and [`qtun.log.LOG_DEBUG`](#log_levels). |

### qtun.state.little\_endian

| key        | value                         |
| ---------- | ----------------------------- |
| **type**   | boolean                       |
| **access** | readonly                      |
| **desc**   | Return true when this machine is little endian encoding. |

### qtun.state.internal\_mtu

| key        | value                          |
| ---------- | ------------------------------ |
| **type**   | number                         |
| **access** | readonly                       |
| **desc**   | Limit for send message length. |

### qtun.state.use\_udp

| key        | value                                            |
| ---------- | ------------------------------------------------ |
| **type**   | boolean                                          |
| **access** | readonly                                         |
| **desc**   | Return true when they are using udp for connect. |

### qtun.state.aes\_key

| key        | value                         |
| ---------- | ----------------------------- |
| **type**   | string or nil                 |
| **access** | readonly                      |
| **desc**   | AES encrypt key, must be `128`, `192` or `256` bit. `nil` when not using AES encryption. |

### qtun.state.aes\_key\_len

| key        | value                         |
| ---------- | ----------------------------- |
| **type**   | number                        |
| **access** | readonly                      |
| **desc**   | AES encrypt key length, must be `128`, `192` or `256`. `0` when not using AES encryption. |

### qtun.state.aes\_iv

| key        | value                         |
| ---------- | ----------------------------- |
| **type**   | string or nil                 |
| **access** | readonly                      |
| **desc**   | AES encrypt initial vector, must be `128` bit. `nil` when not using AES encryption. |

### qtun.state.des\_key

| key        | value                         |
| ---------- | ----------------------------- |
| **type**   | string or nil                 |
| **access** | readonly                      |
| **desc**   | DES encrypt key, must be `64`, `128` or `192` bit. `nil` when not using DES encription. |

### qtun.state.des\_key\_len

| key        | value                         |
| ---------- | ----------------------------- |
| **type**   | number                        |
| **access** | readonly                      |
| **desc**   | DES encrypt key length, must be `8`, `16` or `24`. `0` when not using DES encryption. |

### qtun.state.des\_iv

| key        | value                         |
| ---------- | ----------------------------- |
| **type**   | string or nil                 |
| **access** | readonly                      |
| **desc**   | DES encrypt initial vector, must be `64` bit. `nil` when not using DES encryption. |

### qtun.state.compress

| key        | value                            |
| ---------- | -------------------------------- |
| **type**   | number                           |
| **access** | readonly                         |
| **desc**   | bit mask for the compress masks. |

	#define MSG_COMPRESS_GZIP_ID         1

### qtun.state.encrypt

| key        | value                           |
| ---------- | ------------------------------- |
| **type**   | number                          |
| **access** | readonly                        |
| **desc**   | bit mask for the encrypt masks. |

	#define MSG_ENCRYPT_AES_ID           1
	#define MSG_ENCRYPT_DES_ID           2

## qtun.conf

| key        | value                                           |
| ---------- | ----------------------------------------------- |
| **type**   | table                                           |
| **desc**   | It's the object, it has many properties follow. |

### qtun.conf.conf\_file

| key         | value                         |
| ----------- | ----------------------------- |
| **type**    | string                        |
| **access**  | readonly                      |
| **default** | /                             |
| **desc**    | path for config file.         |

### qtun.conf.server

| key         | value                                       |
| ----------- | ------------------------------------------- |
| **type**    | string                                      |
| **access**  | read and write                              |
| **default** | /                                           |
| **desc**    | It's using for client, server domain or ip. |

### qtun.conf.server\_port

| key         | value                                                      |
| ----------- | ---------------------------------------------------------- |
| **type**    | number                                                     |
| **access**  | read and write                                             |
| **default** | 6687                                                       |
| **desc**    | It's the port for server to bind and for client to connect |

### qtun.conf.localip

| key         | value                         |
| ----------- | ----------------------------- |
| **type**    | string                        |
| **access**  | read and write                |
| **default** | /                             |
| **desc**    | Virtual LAN ip address.       |

### qtun.conf.netmask

| key         | value                    |
| ----------- | ------------------------ |
| **type**    | number                   |
| **access**  | read and write           |
| **default** | 24                       |
| **desc**    | Netmask for Virtual LAN. |

### qtun.conf.log\_level

| key         | value                                 |
| ----------- | ------------------------------------- |
| **type**    | number                                |
| **access**  | read and write                        |
| **default** | [`qtun.log.LOG_WARNING`](#log_levels) |
| **desc**    | Log level in [`qtun.log.LOG_EMERG`](#log_levels), [`qtun.log.LOG_ALERT`](#log_levels), [`qtun.log.LOG_CRIT`](#log_levels), [`qtun.log.LOG_ERR`](#log_levels), [`qtun.log.LOG_WARNING`](#log_levels), [`qtun.log.LOG_NOTICE`](#log_levels), [`qtun.log.LOG_INFO`](#log_levels) and [`qtun.log.LOG_DEBUG`](#log_levels). |

### qtun.conf.internal\_mtu

| key         | value                          |
| ----------- | ------------------------------ |
| **type**    | number                         |
| **access**  | read and write                 |
| **default** | 1492                           |
| **desc**    | Limit for send message length. |

### qtun.conf.dev\_symbol

| key         | value                         |
| ----------- | ----------------------------- |
| **type**    | string                        |
| **access**  | readonly                      |
| **default** | /                             |
| **desc**    | It's only use for `windows` to show the symbol path for an adapter driver. |

### qtun.conf.dev\_name

| key         | value                         |
| ----------- | ----------------------------- |
| **type**    | string                        |
| **access**  | readonly                      |
| **default** | /                             |
| **desc**    | It's only use for `windows` to show the adapter name in `control panel -> network connectioins`. |

### qtun.conf.use\_udp

| key         | value                             |
| ----------- | --------------------------------- |
| **type**    | boolean                           |
| **access**  | read and write                    |
| **default** | false                             |
| **desc**    | Set or get if use udp connection. |

### qtun.conf.use\_gzip

| key         | value                               |
| ----------- | ----------------------------------- |
| **type**    | boolean                             |
| **access**  | read and write                      |
| **default** | false                               |
| **desc**    | Set or get if use gzip compression. |

### qtun.conf.aes\_file

| key         | value                         |
| ----------- | ----------------------------- |
| **type**    | string or nil                 |
| **access**  | read and write                |
| **default** | nil                           |
| **desc**    | Set AES encryption key file, when not using AES encryption, it will return nil. |

### qtun.conf.des\_file

| key         | value                         |
| ----------- | ----------------------------- |
| **type**    | string or nil                 |
| **access**  | read and write                |
| **default** | nil                           |
| **desc**    | Set DES encryption key file, when not using DES encryption, it will return nil. |

### qtun.conf.use\_dhcp

| key         | value                                    |
| ----------- | ---------------------------------------- |
| **type**    | boolean                                  |
| **access**  | read and write                           |
| **default** | false                                    |
| **desc**    | Set server is using dhcp for connection. |

### qtun.conf.signature

| key         | value                         |
| ----------- | ----------------------------- |
| **type**    | string                        |
| **access**  | read and write                |
| **default** | /                             |
| **desc**    | In client it is a 31 bytes string for verify the connection security. In server it is the path for signature file, there are many signature keys in signature file, each signature key is 31 bytes in each row. |

## qtun.log

| key        | value                         |
| ---------- | ----------------------------- |
| **type**   | table                         |
| **desc**   | Object for syslog.            |

### qtun.log.syslog

| key        | value                          |
| ---------- | ------------------------------ |
| **type**   | function                       |
| **desc**   | alias for [\_syslog](_syslog). |

### log\_levels

| key                      | value |
| ------------------------ | :---: |
| **qtun.log.LOG_EMERG**   | 0     |
| **qtun.log.LOG_ALERT**   | 1     |
| **qtun.log.LOG_CRIT**    | 2     |
| **qtun.log.LOG_ERR**     | 3     |
| **qtun.log.LOG_WARNING** | 4     |
| **qtun.log.LOG_NOTICE**  | 5     |
| **qtun.log.LOG_INFO**    | 6     |
| **qtun.log.LOG_DEBUG**   | 7     |

Commit message:

修改lua文档，增加qtun.state.is_server描述

lua.md, after:

# Supported Lib

1. base
2. table
3. string
4. io

# Global

1. [\_\_conf\_\_](#__conf__)
2. [\_syslog](#_syslog)
3. [qtun.state](#qtunstate)
4. [qtun.conf](#qtunconf)
5. [qtun.log](#qtunlog)

## \_\_conf\_\_

| key        | value                         |
| ---------- | ----------------------------- |
| **type**   | user\_data                    |
| **desc**   | It's supported to get `library_conf_t` in c language. So you can't use it in your lua script. |

## \_syslog

| key        | value                         |
| ---------- | ----------------------------- |
| **type**   | function                      |
| **desc**   | Log for system log.           |

	_syslog(level, fmt, ...)
	
*level*: write log when [qtun.state.log_level](#qtunstatelog_level) >= level.

*fmt*: format string for follow arguments.

## qtun.state

| key        | value                         |
| ---------- | ----------------------------- |
| **type**   | table                         |
| **desc**   | It's the object for global variable `this`, it has many properties follow. |

### qtun.state.this\_path

| key        | value                                  |
| ---------- | -------------------------------------- |
| **type**   | string                                 |
| **access** | readonly                               |
| **desc**   | Location for qtun program in realpath. |

### qtun.state.msg\_ident

| key        | value                         |
| ---------- | ----------------------------- |
| **type**   | number                        |
| **access** | readonly                      |
| **desc**   | Ident for send message.       |

### qtun.state.msg\_ttl

| key        | value                         |
| ---------- | ----------------------------- |
| **type**   | number                        |
| **access** | readonly                      |
| **desc**   | TTL for recv message.         |

### qtun.state.localip

| key        | value                         |
| ---------- | ----------------------------- |
| **type**   | string                        |
| **access** | readonly                      |
| **desc**   | Virtual LAN ip address.       |

### qtun.state.netmask

| key        | value                         |
| ---------- | ----------------------------- |
| **type**   | number                        |
| **access** | readonly                      |
| **desc**   | Netmask for Virtual LAN.      |

### qtun.state.log\_level

| key        | value                         |
| ---------- | ----------------------------- |
| **type**   | number                        |
| **access** | readonly                      |
| **desc**   | Log level in [`qtun.log.LOG_EMERG`](#log_levels), [`qtun.log.LOG_ALERT`](#log_levels), [`qtun.log.LOG_CRIT`](#log_levels), [`qtun.log.LOG_ERR`](#log_levels), [`qtun.log.LOG_WARNING`](#log_levels), [`qtun.log.LOG_NOTICE`](#log_levels), [`qtun.log.LOG_INFO`](#log_levels) and [`qtun.log.LOG_DEBUG`](#log_levels). |

### qtun.state.little\_endian

| key        | value                         |
| ---------- | ----------------------------- |
| **type**   | boolean                       |
| **access** | readonly                      |
| **desc**   | Return true when this machine is little endian encoding. |

### qtun.state.internal\_mtu

| key        | value                          |
| ---------- | ------------------------------ |
| **type**   | number                         |
| **access** | readonly                       |
| **desc**   | Limit for send message length. |

### qtun.state.use\_udp

| key        | value                                            |
| ---------- | ------------------------------------------------ |
| **type**   | boolean                                          |
| **access** | readonly                                         |
| **desc**   | Return true when they are using udp for connect. |

### qtun.state.aes\_key

| key        | value                         |
| ---------- | ----------------------------- |
| **type**   | string or nil                 |
| **access** | readonly                      |
| **desc**   | AES encrypt key, must be `128`, `192` or `256` bit. `nil` when not using AES encryption. |

### qtun.state.aes\_key\_len

| key        | value                         |
| ---------- | ----------------------------- |
| **type**   | number                        |
| **access** | readonly                      |
| **desc**   | AES encrypt key length, must be `128`, `192` or `256`. `0` when not using AES encryption. |

### qtun.state.aes\_iv

| key        | value                         |
| ---------- | ----------------------------- |
| **type**   | string or nil                 |
| **access** | readonly                      |
| **desc**   | AES encrypt initial vector, must be `128` bit. `nil` when not using AES encryption. |

### qtun.state.des\_key

| key        | value                         |
| ---------- | ----------------------------- |
| **type**   | string or nil                 |
| **access** | readonly                      |
| **desc**   | DES encrypt key, must be `64`, `128` or `192` bit. `nil` when not using DES encription. |

### qtun.state.des\_key\_len

| key        | value                         |
| ---------- | ----------------------------- |
| **type**   | number                        |
| **access** | readonly                      |
| **desc**   | DES encrypt key length, must be `8`, `16` or `24`. `0` when not using DES encryption. |

### qtun.state.des\_iv

| key        | value                         |
| ---------- | ----------------------------- |
| **type**   | string or nil                 |
| **access** | readonly                      |
| **desc**   | DES encrypt initial vector, must be `64` bit. `nil` when not using DES encryption. |

### qtun.state.compress

| key        | value                            |
| ---------- | -------------------------------- |
| **type**   | number                           |
| **access** | readonly                         |
| **desc**   | bit mask for the compress masks. |

	#define MSG_COMPRESS_GZIP_ID         1

### qtun.state.encrypt

| key        | value                           |
| ---------- | ------------------------------- |
| **type**   | number                          |
| **access** | readonly                        |
| **desc**   | bit mask for the encrypt masks. |

	#define MSG_ENCRYPT_AES_ID           1
	#define MSG_ENCRYPT_DES_ID           2

### qtun.state.is\_server

| key        | value                           |
| ---------- | ------------------------------- |
| **type**   | boolean                         |
| **access** | readonly                        |
| **desc**   | flag for indicate is server.    |

## qtun.conf

| key        | value                                           |
| ---------- | ----------------------------------------------- |
| **type**   | table                                           |
| **desc**   | It's the object, it has many properties follow. |

### qtun.conf.conf\_file

| key         | value                         |
| ----------- | ----------------------------- |
| **type**    | string                        |
| **access**  | readonly                      |
| **default** | /                             |
| **desc**    | path for config file.         |

### qtun.conf.server

| key         | value                                       |
| ----------- | ------------------------------------------- |
| **type**    | string                                      |
| **access**  | read and write                              |
| **default** | /                                           |
| **desc**    | It's using for client, server domain or ip. |

### qtun.conf.server\_port

| key         | value                                                      |
| ----------- | ---------------------------------------------------------- |
| **type**    | number                                                     |
| **access**  | read and write                                             |
| **default** | 6687                                                       |
| **desc**    | It's the port for server to bind and for client to connect |

### qtun.conf.localip

| key         | value                         |
| ----------- | ----------------------------- |
| **type**    | string                        |
| **access**  | read and write                |
| **default** | /                             |
| **desc**    | Virtual LAN ip address.       |

### qtun.conf.netmask

| key         | value                    |
| ----------- | ------------------------ |
| **type**    | number                   |
| **access**  | read and write           |
| **default** | 24                       |
| **desc**    | Netmask for Virtual LAN. |

### qtun.conf.log\_level

| key         | value                                 |
| ----------- | ------------------------------------- |
| **type**    | number                                |
| **access**  | read and write                        |
| **default** | [`qtun.log.LOG_WARNING`](#log_levels) |
| **desc**    | Log level in [`qtun.log.LOG_EMERG`](#log_levels), [`qtun.log.LOG_ALERT`](#log_levels), [`qtun.log.LOG_CRIT`](#log_levels), [`qtun.log.LOG_ERR`](#log_levels), [`qtun.log.LOG_WARNING`](#log_levels), [`qtun.log.LOG_NOTICE`](#log_levels), [`qtun.log.LOG_INFO`](#log_levels) and [`qtun.log.LOG_DEBUG`](#log_levels). |

### qtun.conf.internal\_mtu

| key         | value                          |
| ----------- | ------------------------------ |
| **type**    | number                         |
| **access**  | read and write                 |
| **default** | 1492                           |
| **desc**    | Limit for send message length. |

### qtun.conf.dev\_symbol

| key         | value                         |
| ----------- | ----------------------------- |
| **type**    | string                        |
| **access**  | readonly                      |
| **default** | /                             |
| **desc**    | It's only use for `windows` to show the symbol path for an adapter driver. |

### qtun.conf.dev\_name

| key         | value                         |
| ----------- | ----------------------------- |
| **type**    | string                        |
| **access**  | readonly                      |
| **default** | /                             |
| **desc**    | It's only use for `windows` to show the adapter name in `control panel -> network connectioins`. |

### qtun.conf.use\_udp

| key         | value                             |
| ----------- | --------------------------------- |
| **type**    | boolean                           |
| **access**  | read and write                    |
| **default** | false                             |
| **desc**    | Set or get if use udp connection. |

### qtun.conf.use\_gzip

| key         | value                               |
| ----------- | ----------------------------------- |
| **type**    | boolean                             |
| **access**  | read and write                      |
| **default** | false                               |
| **desc**    | Set or get if use gzip compression. |

### qtun.conf.aes\_file

| key         | value                         |
| ----------- | ----------------------------- |
| **type**    | string or nil                 |
| **access**  | read and write                |
| **default** | nil                           |
| **desc**    | Set AES encryption key file, when not using AES encryption, it will return nil. |

### qtun.conf.des\_file

| key         | value                         |
| ----------- | ----------------------------- |
| **type**    | string or nil                 |
| **access**  | read and write                |
| **default** | nil                           |
| **desc**    | Set DES encryption key file, when not using DES encryption, it will return nil. |

### qtun.conf.use\_dhcp

| key         | value                                    |
| ----------- | ---------------------------------------- |
| **type**    | boolean                                  |
| **access**  | read and write                           |
| **default** | false                                    |
| **desc**    | Set server is using dhcp for connection. |

### qtun.conf.signature

| key         | value                         |
| ----------- | ----------------------------- |
| **type**    | string                        |
| **access**  | read and write                |
| **default** | /                             |
| **desc**    | In client it is a 31 bytes string for verify the connection security. In server it is the path for signature file, there are many signature keys in signature file, each signature key is 31 bytes in each row. |

## qtun.log

| key        | value                         |
| ---------- | ----------------------------- |
| **type**   | table                         |
| **desc**   | Object for syslog.            |

### qtun.log.syslog

| key        | value                          |
| ---------- | ------------------------------ |
| **type**   | function                       |
| **desc**   | alias for [\_syslog](_syslog). |

### log\_levels

| key                      | value |
| ------------------------ | :---: |
| **qtun.log.LOG_EMERG**   | 0     |
| **qtun.log.LOG_ALERT**   | 1     |
| **qtun.log.LOG_CRIT**    | 2     |
| **qtun.log.LOG_ERR**     | 3     |
| **qtun.log.LOG_WARNING** | 4     |
| **qtun.log.LOG_NOTICE**  | 5     |
| **qtun.log.LOG_INFO**    | 6     |
| **qtun.log.LOG_DEBUG**   | 7     |
